♪ Better watch out
♪ You better not cry [ Engine roaring]
♪ You better not pout,
I'm tellin' you why ♪
♪ Santa Claus is comin' to town ♪
[ Gunshots]
♪ He's makin' a list
♪ he's checkin' it twice
♪ gonna find out who's
naughty or nice ♪
♪ Santa Claus is comin' to town ♪
[Cracks]
All right, ladies of the Castle household,
just a reminder that your
portion for the holiday poem
is due in less than 72 hours.
I just have to do a polish.
I can't wait to see it.
How's yours coming along?
Are you ready for your big debut
in the Castle family Christmas card?
Yeah, absolutely.
- It's gonna be the best year ever!
- Yeah. [Laughter]
[Whispers]Excited!
Hmm.
[Whispering]You guys, I completely forgot.
[Lowered voice]He said
that it wasn't a big deal,
but I think it actually kind of is.
It's a very big deal.
We even get a little competitive.
I started working on mine in July.
Wh...
- Welcome to the family.
- [Laughs] Yeah.
[Chuckles, normal voice]
So what do I have to do again?
Write six funny, poignant, eloquent lines
describing highlights of
the past year for you.
- Oh. Yeah.
- And they must rhyme.
Yeah.
What word rhymes with "I'm screwed"?
[Cell phone rings]
Beckett.
It's just that rhyming
isn't exactly my thing.
This coming from a woman who skipped prom
to crash a poetry slam?
Spoken word, Castle.
That's a totally different jam.
I mean,
I could write a haiku for you instead.
- Nah, that's against the rules.
- Since when do you follow rules?
Since I'm the one who made them. [Sighs]
You should probably get me your first draft
by the time we get to the,
uh, precinct holiday party.
That's two days away.
See? Plenty of time. [Sighs]
- Hey.
So get ready for a murder
with a little holiday spirit.
Went down around 10:30 p.m.
Witnesses saw a black mustang, no plates,
chasing after this guy.
This was a drive-by?
But he looks like he was shot close range.
Yeah, and the shooter capped him
in the head to finish him off.
So this wasn't random.
Did anyone get a good
look at the assailant?
Yeah,
when he drove by like a bat out of hell.
Fuzzy red hat, big white beard.
Seriously, our killer is Santa Claus?
Three witnesses all told the same story.
Guys. Squeezing down countless chimneys?
Delivering millions of
presents in one night?
It's bound to happen.
Santa finally cracked.
Or...
our victim was naughty instead of nice.
Castle and Esposito: [Laughing]
That's tasteless.
Or a killer just wore a Santa suit
because that was the perfect
disguise at this time of year.
So what do we know about the victim?
His name is Eric Mercer. Lives in midtown.
His hospital I.D. says he's
an E.R. doctor at St. Simon's.
- Do we know where he was coming from?
- Not yet,
but he bought a latte at a coffee shop
six blocks away from here
before our gun-toting
St. Nick came after him.
And the barista there said that
Mercer was carrying a blue backpack.
But witnesses who saw Mercer running
said there wasn't any backpack.
Okay, let's set up a search
from here to that coffee shop.
That backpack may contain
clues as to why he was killed.
Well,
maybe the last person that Mercer talked to
can shed some light on that.
10 minutes before he was shot,
Eric Mercer called someone
at St. Simon's hospital.
That was me.
I just talked to Eric a few hours ago.
I'm sorry. This is just such a shock.
How did he seem when you talked?
A little on edge, I guess...
like he was in a hurry.
Did he say why?
I assume it was his uncle.
His uncle has cancer and lives alone.
Eric tried to be there for him.
He missed work last night, too.
Do you know his name?
Edward, I think. Edward Mercer.
Maybe he knows why this happened to Eric.
- Hey!
- Hey.
What you got for me, girl?
I found these on the
arm of the vic's jacket.
Some kind of tiny crystals.
Could they be from the christmas
decorations that he landed on
after he crashed through the window?
No, these are mineral crystals. Mm.
Hopefully the lab can I.D. them.
Hang on. You always call me down here
after the lab results are in,
which leads me to believe that you may have
some ulterior motives.
Javi, I want to ask a little favor.
Anything you need.
So...
My parents barely ever leave Louisiana,
and they're flying out to Paris tomorrow,
and they have a last-minute
layover in New York.
They want us all to get together.
[Swallows]So it's, uh,
meet the parents?
Are you okay with that?
[Scoffs]Yeah.
Yeah. Why wouldn't I be?
That's not even really a favor.
That's just me stepping up.
Mm-hmm.
See, I didn't get to the favor part...
[Sets clipboard down]...yet.
What?
You didn't?
See, um...
My parents... [Chuckles nervously]
my...
my parents kind of think we're engaged.
Wh-why do they think that?
Well, you and I were on again, off again,
and they just got so worried about
their unmarried daughter that...
So you told them we got engaged?
I didn't mean to. It just... popped out.
How does something like that just pop out?
I wanted them to stop bugging me.
I'm sorry, Javi, but once I said it,
there it was, and now here they are.
So the first time I meet your parents,
you're asking me to lie to them?
I'll be lying to them, too,
but I've been doing it longer.
Wow.
Uh... can I... just...
bring
'em down to the precinct to say hello?
And you could just pretend for 10 minutes.
I'll make it worth your while.
Y-yeah, yeah. I-I can do that.
Mmm.
So we looked into Eric's family history,
contacts in his phone and computer.
He does not have an uncle
named Edward Mercer.
In fact, he doesn't have an uncle at all.
Then why did he miss his shift,
and where did he go?
I may have an answer to that.
It turns out that Eric
used the Hytch Ride
Share app to catch a ride
to an address in Queens tonight
a couple of hours before he was killed.
In fact,
he took numerous trips to that same address
which line up with shifts that
he missed at the hospital.
And what's at this location?
Certainly not Uncle Edward.
Offices. It's an office building
owned by Evergreen Sanitation N.Y.C.
Are you sure about that?
Evergreen Sanitation N.Y.C.
is a known front
for organized crime.
Why would Eric Mercer be
visiting a mob-owned building?
Let's head to Queens and find out.
No placards, no names.
It's like this whole place is unoccupied.
And yet Eric missed work to come here...
repeatedly.
[Chuckles]
Ooh, excuse me, sir,
N.Y.P.D. could you help...
wait, sir, could you please just help us?
We...
[door slams] [Sighs]
Beckett.
[Door creaks]
Whoa.
This is a surgical suite.
Owned by organized crime.
Eric Mercer wasn't just a doctor.
He was a mob doctor.
S07E10
Bad Santa
sync and corrected by ninh
www.addic7ed.com
I've worked organized crime 16 years.
I know most of the players, but this guy?
No.
Well, we believe that he might
have been a family doctor
for whoever controls
Evergreen Sanitation N.Y.C.
Yeah, that's the Carlucci family.
They've been moving up the charts
since Dino Scarpella took over.
But I didn't know that they had a doctor.
Whoa.
Um, Dino Scarpella... I know that guy.
Seriously?
Yeah, he helped me with research
for a Derrick Storm novel,
but back then he was just a mid-level guy.
Detective McBride, if Eric was a doctor
for the Carlucci family,
do you have any idea
why he would have been targeted?
I haven't heard anything,
if that's what you're asking me.
But, uh, the way he was killed,
sounds like somebody was sending a message.
Where would we find Dino Scarpella?
Uh, his main offices are over in Queens.
It's a strip club called
Cica Cica Boom Room.
- Why?
- Well, we should go talk to him.
Dino knows me. He likes me.
If Eric was his mob doctor,
he'd want to help solve this.
Assuming he wasn't involved.
You know,
I'll have Detectives Ryan and Esposito
coordinate with you on the
Mustang and ballistics.
We'll see if any of that connects
to anyone in organized crime.
Field trip to a strip club. [Exhales]
Rufus Thomas: ♪ I'll be your Santa,
baby [Men hooting]
♪ Till 1984
♪ be your Santa
♪ yeah, yeah
Castle, you keep staring like that,
you're gonna have to pay
for the 2-drink minimum.
♪ Yeah, yeah
I'm sorry. What were you saying?
I wasn't saying anything. You were talking.
About Dino, about how he's a nice guy
in spite of the fact that he's a mobster.
- Really?
- No. But... uh...
I know you find this hard to believe,
but he is a really nice guy.
Yeah, sure,
up until the point he guts you like a fish.
- Rick, is that really you?
- Dino!
Oh, man. Do you know
I just finished your book, "Raging Heat"?
- Really?
- Terrific. Wonderful story.
- Thank you.
- Wonderful, yeah.
So what brings you here?
And who is this Venus?
Dino, this is my wife...
- Wow.
- Kate Beckett.
Detective Beckett, N.Y.P.D.
Uh, she's... she's okay.
I'm actually consulting
with the police now,
and we're here for your help
in a murder investigation.
For you, Rick, I'm happy to help.
And the boys are, too.
Rocco Carlucci...
he's my, uh, my chief of security.
And this is Christopher Carlucci,
V.P. of corporate affairs. Who got whacked?
A, uh, Dr. Eric Mercer.
Um...
Yeah, I do not recognize this person.
Mr. Scarpella, we've connected Dr. Mercer
to a surgical suite paid
for by your organization.
Dino, we know Eric worked for you,
but who would want to do this to him?
Can you help us out?
Sadly, I have no help to offer.
But please, stay, enjoy yourselves.
It's on the house.
Uh, Mr. Scarpella...
like he said, we got nothing for you.
[Cell phone rings]
[Beep]
Hey, Espo. So while you and Castle
were busy getting lap dances,
Ryan and I did some real police work.
We found a Carlucci
connection to the murder.
Yeah... wait, what kind of a connection?
Turns out the family's number two,
Christopher Carlucci, owns a black mustang.
Guess what was stashed inside.
A Santa suit... with blood on it.
Christopher Carlucci,
we need to talk.
Why did you kill Eric Mercer?
I didn't.
Okay,
then why don't you clear this up for me?
Where were you at the time of the murder?
And why did witnesses see your
mustang at the crime scene?
And why did we find a Santa suit
stuffed in the trunk of your car
with Eric's blood on it?
Look, Christopher,
I don't think you just woke up one morning
and decided to kill the family doctor.
That kind of order comes from above.
Did Dino Scarpella give the order?
[Breathes sharply]
I want a lawyer.
I wonder why the Carluccis
would kill their own doctor.
Maybe he saw something he shouldn't have,
let the wrong mobster die on his table.
Yeah.
[Cell phone rings]
- Excuse me.
- Yeah.
[Beep]
Richard Castle.
Dino: Rick, we need to talk.
He said he wanted you to
meet him at the strip club?
Why?
He just said that it was urgent.
And when Dino Scarpella
issues an invitation,
you don't R.S.V.P. with "no."
Yeah, you do, especially if he
put a hit out on Eric Mercer.
He called me at the precinct.
He knows I'm married to you.
I-I'm in no danger here.
Oh, God, Castle,
this just sounds like an epitaph.
Um... You know what? I'm gonna go with you.
He said to come alone.
You're gonna have to trust me on this.
Dino... He's an honorable man.
Yeah, well,
I bet that's what Eric thought, too.
Buy yourself something nice with it, okay?
Take your mind off this tragedy.
And don't tell your mother, okay?
[Sniffles]Thanks, daddy. [Kisses]
Jane.
The roll of cash she spends on clothes
could choke a horse. [Door closes]
I even bought an imitation couture company,
but the fake stuff isn't
good enough for my girl.
Right? Especially now that she's upset.
She and Eric... they were very close,
very close since they were kids.
So you're admitting he was your doctor.
I don't like that word "admit."
"Acknowledging"?
Wow, Rick, me and you...
we had a good relationship once, huh?
We still do, don't we?
Well, I don't know. I...
I need to know I can speak freely.
That you're not gonna turn around and
repeat what I say to the authorities.
Dino...
You can trust me.
Eric was family.
My cousin's Bruno's kid,
by a girl he had on the side.
Bruno... he died in the slammer,
so I looked after Eric.
I sent him to the best schools.
I didn't want him to work for the family,
but...
If you want to hear God laugh,
you tell him...
tell him all your plans, right?
So what happened?
[Clicks tongue] A few years back,
one of my guys got shot. It happens.
He would have croaked, but Eric stepped up.
Next thing I know...
Next thing I know,
he's got a taste for the life.
I need to find out who did this to him.
Don't take this the wrong way, Dino,
- but I think you already do know.
- It was not Christopher.
- All the evidence says that it was.
- He was framed.
He's innocent...
when it comes to this, anyway.
I know... because I was with him.
Dino, if that's true,
all we have to do is call Beckett.
- You can alibi him.
- Mm, no, that's no good.
See, at the time,
me and Christopher, we were,
uh, engaged in a sensitive
business transaction.
And by "sensitive," you mean "illegal."
I don't like that word either.
My point is this...
the cops are not looking for Eric's killer
because they think they already got him.
Even if they are out looking for him,
nobody in my world's gonna give
'em the time of day.
And this is where you come in.
- Me?
- Yeah.
I need you to prove Christopher's innocence
and find Eric's killer.
See,
nobody connected's gonna talk to the cops,
but if I vouch for you,
give you access no cop has ever gotten...
Dino, I don't know if I'm...
I could crack a joke
about making you an offer
you can't refuse.
But you cannot refuse.
Understood.
Good.
But if I figure out who did this,
you have to let me bring
the killer to justice.
And by "justice," I mean legal justice,
not just taking him out.
When the time comes,
I need to call Beckett.
We will swear by the code of silence.
[Slices] Omerta?
[Slices] Ow!
[Knife clatters, slap] Ow!
You're blood now, Rick.
You're family.
Do not let me down.
So let me get this straight.
You want to reinvestigate Eric's murder
on behalf of your friend Dino the mob boss?
Okay, well, when you put it like that,
it sounds bad.
It sounds bad no matter how I put it.
Castle, we have the killer.
Christopher was with Dino at the time.
According to Dino.
Dino is playing you.
Mobsters get arrested.
It's a cost of doing business.
Dino knows that.
So why go through the trouble
of asking me to look into it
unless Christopher was innocent?
Firstly, he didn't exactly ask you,
and secondly,
he just wants his number two back.
Well, there's more to it than that.
Omerta.
We made the blood oath.
It was not my idea,
and I did not have a choice.
So you believe Dino because
he gave you a paper cut?
Look, if I look into Eric's murder
and the trail leads back to
Christopher Carlucci, so be it.
But if it doesn't,
don't you want to know
who the real killer is?
[Clicks tongue]Fine.
But you have to promise that Captain Gates
isn't gonna find out
that we're poking around
an already closed case.
And... you have to keep me looped in
- every step of the way.
- I promise.
And since Dino gave me an all-access pass
with the family,
I'm gonna start by talking to Christopher.
[Kisses] Thank you.
I heard Scarpella and
Castle had a sit-down.
What do you think that's about?
I don't know.
But I don't like him
going around us like this.
- Mm.
- Hey, baby!
Hey!
[High-pitched]Hey!
Javier, these are my parents...
Walter and Melinda.
- How you doing?
- Ooh, oh. Okay. [Laughs]
We're huggers in the Parish family, son.
And go ahead. Call me "dad."
Oh. Okay.
Ooh! I can see where Lanie
gets her beautiful eyes from.
And her medical brain must come from you.
I hear that you're a surgeon.
Cardiothoracic. But retired.
No shop talk, dear. The only talk I want
is to hear the story.
- What story?
- The proposal, of course.
Oh! That story! Right. [Laughs]
Javi?
Yes, the story. Um...
Uh, we, um...
You know, baby,
you tell it so much better than me.
Why don't you...
This guy! You should have seen him.
He rolls Lanie
out into the middle of the
Central Park boat pond.
He gets down on one knee,
so nervous he nearly capsizes the boat.
Almost sends them both into the water.
[Gasps]That's just what Lanie did when...
She saw that ring.
- Ah. Perfect fit.
- Yeah.
I'm Kevin, by the way...
Espo's partner and, you know,
proposal planner-in-crime. [Laughs]
That's so romantic.
I want to hear all about the courtship.
I just wish we had time for all of that,
but, you know,
with us having to get back to work
and...
and you having to catch your plane...
Actually, I just got a text
that our flight's been
delayed till tomorrow.
[Gasps]So why don't we all go out
and have dinner a little later?
[Laughs nervously]Ohh!
Yes, that sounds great, Walter.
I mean... Dad.
[Doors clatter]
You sure he's good?
Ask your questions.
I'll tell you what I know.
Thanks.
So... [exhales]
Dino says you were set up.
So who'd want to frame you?
[Scoffs]
I'm his right-hand man.
I know 50 guys who would slit my throat...
[Snaps fingers]...like that.
But they'd kill me.
Not one of 'em would frame me.
All right, then let's talk about Eric.
Eric, uh, recently had some concerns.
Concerns that someone was after him?
Not exactly. Uh...
See, Eric being our doctor...
we kept that secret.
You know,
so he could have a life outside the family.
But I guess he was afraid
that his secret got out,
because a few days ago, he comes to me
and he asks a favor.
What kind of a favor?
He wanted phone tap detectors.
You know, tracing equipment.
He thought he was being watched.
- By whom?
- I don't know.
You know, at the time,
I thought he was just being paranoid.
But I wanted to be safe, so, I, uh,
I hooked him up with Cyber Rita.
Are you morons ready?
I'm cutting the alarm in 3, 2, 1...
[Key clicks, beep] Bam!
Yeah, I helped the doc.
Well, did Eric tell you who
he thought was watching him?
- What are you talking about?
- When he asked for
the countersurveillance equipment.
That's not what he asked me for.
It isn't?
No. Christopher called me
and told me to give Eric
whatever he needed, so I did.
And what did Eric need?
Well, it sounds like
Eric told Christopher one thing,
and me another.
So I'm not gonna say another word
until I'm sure that lurch over there
isn't gonna have me
sleeping with the fishes.
Uh, lurch, would you...
Rocco, I mean, could you...
He wanted hot credit cards.
Stolen credit cards? What for?
So he could buy things and
not have to pay for them.
- Thank you. That's...
- I gave him a dozen,
so each is good for about 2 grand
before it needs to be tossed.
Did Eric say why he needed $24,000?
Maybe for wheels?
He asked if he could use the card to access
a swipe-and-go car rental, but I told him
he was definitely gonna need a
fake I.D. to go with the card.
Okay, could you e-mail me
those credit card numbers
- so I can see if he used them?
- Yeah. Oh!
[Alarm ringing] Aah!
Which of you idiots just
triggered the security door?
Stolen credit cards,
a possible getaway car.
Sounds like Eric was
about to go on the run.
Only the killer got to him first.
Okay, so if Christopher didn't kill him,
then who did?
Maybe whatever Eric was
charging on those cards
could give us a lead.
Unfortunately, cards are a bust.
I ran the numbers. No recent activity.
- Did we ever find those cards?
- Uh, no.
Not in his hospital locker or his apartment
- or on his body.
- Maybe the killer took them.
Well, I'll have Tory monitor the numbers,
see if any activity pops.
Think I got a lead.
So we're really thinking
that this killer is not
Christopher Carlucci, right?
Yes.
- Maybe.
- No.
Oh, come on. The guy is guilty.
Nobody thought otherwise
until Castle over here
started moonlighting for the mob.
I think that might be
overstating it a little.
You took a blood oath.
You let them turn you
into an honorary mobster.
- What's wrong with you?
- Oh, come on, man.
How many people outside of the mafia
ever get to swear Omerta?
I think it is a...
experience of a lifetime.
- Of course you would.
- Didn't you say you had a lead?
Yeah.
The lab was able to identify the crystals
that Lanie found on Eric's sleeves.
They're made up of sodium ferrocyanide
mixed with sodium chloride, which means...
It's road salt. It hasn't snowed in weeks.
So why would Eric be literally
up to his elbows in salt?
I don't know.
But there are only four salt depots
on the island,
and one of them happens to be
within three blocks of our crime scene.
The blue backpack.
But we searched for it.
We never found it.
That's because just before Eric died,
he hid that bag.
The salt depot.
Man, the places we go to follow a lead.
But if it points to our killer,
it's worth it indeed.
If that's you trying to
help me with my poem,
then it's not working.
Right over here.
This is where Eric gained access.
Wait, is that the, uh... right there.
Advertise your product or brand here
contact www.OpenSubtitles.org today
The victim's blue backpack. You were right.
Eric must have stashed it
here before he was killed.
But what was he trying to hide
that he didn't want anyone to find?
[Unzips backpack]
Bloody clothes?
With bullet holes.
Here's what I can tell you.
The guy who wore these clothes
was about 6 feet, maybe 180, 200 pounds.
- What about his injuries?
- Two shots to the back.
Both bullets exited the front of his body.
Based on where he was hit
and the amount of blood,
he probably didn't survive.
So did any stiffs come in
with those kinds of wounds?
- Minus his clothes, of course.
- No. I already checked.
Can you tell when he was shot?
Blood coagulation says it
was within the last two days.
Eric missed work two days ago,
and his hytch app showed
that he went to that
surgical suite in Queens.
So then maybe this was
one of his mob patients.
He wasn't...
at least not according to Dino.
No recent gunshot wounds in the family,
and Eric hadn't treated
anyone in the past week.
Then Eric must have treated someone else,
someone not connected to the Carluccis.
Could that mean that Eric operated
on someone from another family?
If he did,
and said mobster is dead or missing,
then perhaps detective
McBride has heard about it.
Meantime,
I'll run D.N.A. to see if this blood
matches anyone in the system.
Thanks, Lanie.
Hey, hey. Hey. So what's the game plan
to survive dinner with your parents?
I don't know.
We barely survived five minutes with them.
You... [sighs]
What if they ask us where we want to live?
When we want kids? [Stammering]
They're gonna see right through us.
Maybe we should come clean.
Javi, I can't come clean.
If I come clean,
I will never hear the end of this.
Look, you met them. You kept your promise.
You can skip dinner.
I'll say something came up...
like a dead body.
No way.
I can't be the kind of fiance that bails
on the one time your parents were in town.
I have to go. We're engaged.
We're not engaged.
[Lowered voice] But we could be.
[Normal voice]Someday.
And I don't want them to hate me then
because I skipped out now.
So I asked around about
the other crime families,
looked into who might have gone missing
or, you know,
taken a bullet the last few days.
I think I got your guy. 6'1", 190 pounds.
He'd fit in those clothes.
Luca Tessaro?
Of the Tessaro crime family?
Yeah, and the family's beating the drums
because Luca disappeared three days ago.
Aren't the Tessaros and
the Carluccis rivals?
More like sworn enemies.
Which could be why things
went bad for your doctor.
You don't cross family lines.
What do we know about Luca's disappearance?
Well, 3 nights ago, 9-1-1 got reports
of shots fired near his neighborhood.
Officers responded.
They didn't find anything.
But Luca hasn't been seen since.
- Thank you, detective.
- Whatever you need.
Why would Eric treat Luca Tessaro,
a member of a rival family?
See,
this is the beauty of me being mobbed up.
Temporarily. I can go straight
to the source and ask Dino.
Castle, just be careful.
If Eric treated a Carlucci enemy,
then Dino had motive.
Dino is not gonna ask me to investigate
if it's gonna lead back to his doorstep.
But I shall return with answers.
The boys and I will check the area
where those shots were fired.
Maybe officers missed something.
Well, if unis missed something,
I'm not finding it.
All five 9-1-1 callers
said they heard shots
near this underpass,
so if Luca Tessaro was killed here,
there's got to be evidence.
Assuming he's really our victim.
Oh, he definitely is. Lanie just texted.
Luca Tessaro's in the system,
and the prelim D.N.A. markers
from the bloody clothes are a match.
How did Luca and Eric cross
paths in the first place?
Yeah.
You guys?
I found a slug.
Call C.S.U.
Hey. I found something else.
Check this out.
That's blood.
Rocco, you must be privy
to the inner workings of the family.
Do you mind if I ask you a few questions?
I'm gonna go ahead and take that as a...
as a "yes."
So, first of all,
how well did you know Eric Mercer?
[Sniffs]
You're a man of few words, Rocco.
Very, very few words.
How about Luca Tessaro?
Eric have any history with him?
Luca's a sore subject.
Uh, sore subject, why?
Because he's a Tessaro?
Because he's a stain upon his family.
Okay, I take it Eric didn't like him.
Eric hated Luca. We all do.
For what he did to Jane.
Dino's daughter? How is she involved?
[Sighs]
One night she's at this club.
Luca was there,
and he tried to have his way with her.
Word got back to Dino.
He was ready to kill Luca.
Wanted to pull the trigger himself.
- Well, did he?
- Mnh-mnh. Jane stopped him.
She didn't want a war between families.
Besides,
she's a woman who can take care of herself.
Hey, Beckett,
I just got some very interesting news.
Yeah, so did I.
We found blood evidence at
the scene where Luca was shot.
Go on.
It was Luca's blood on a bracelet.
C.S.U. pulled a thumbprint off of it
that matched a DMV record
for Jane Scarpella.
She's Dino's daughter.
Look, it's possible that Jane killed Luca.
She got Eric to help cover it
up and then she killed him, too.
I just...
I don't know what her motive would be.
I think I do.
Good. Then let's hear it.
Can't. I gotta go.
I'll call you back and tell you later.
[Under breath]I hope. [Cell phone beeps]
The boss will see you now.
Dino.
What news do you have for me, Rick?
Who killed Eric?
You come in here...
to my house of business
and accuse my daughter of not one
but two murders?
Not... accuse as much as...
perhaps she's a... person of interest.
You think I don't know what that means?
You disappoint me, Rick.
I came to you.
I put my faith in you.
[Drawer handle jiggles]
I thought we had an understanding.
We did.
We do. Look, you're the last... whoa!
Whoa! [Click]
Dino, what are you... what are you doing?
I don't tolerate lies, Rick.
[Bullets clatter]
Dino... eh... hey...
Hey, we're family, remember?
[Clicks]That's right.
[Closes drawer]
You never disrespect family.
Who disrespects you?
I respect you, Dino.
I-I-I respect the hell out of you.
[Door opens] Dad, I heard Mr. Castle
had information on Eric's killer.
Oh. What's going on? [Door closes]
Step out, Jane. I'm conducting business.
Dino, ask her. Ask her.
You at least owe me that much.
If she's guilty, you need to know.
Otherwise, you can't protect her.
Guilty? Guilty of what?
Of Tessaro's murder.
Police found your bracelet
where he was shot.
Jane, you tell him.
[Exhales]
Tell him you weren't there, Jane.
You better tell him. [Hammer clicks]
Tell him! Jane, tell him!
Daddy, I'm sorry! I was.
But I didn't kill him.
I was trying to save him.
Save him?
Dad, Luca and I...
we were in love.
[Breathes unevenly] You were in what?
After what he did to you?
That story about him coming on to me...
I made it up.
Made it up?
What do you mean, you made it up?
What was I supposed to say?
That I was in love with a Tessaro?
If either family knew our secret,
we could never be together.
Daddy...
I'm processing this news.
Jane, uh...
[Gasps]
What happened that night?
Luca called me...
Gasping for breath. He'd been shot.
By the time I got to him,
he was unconscious,
dying.
He needed help,
so I dragged him into my car.
That's probably how I lost my bracelet.
So you called Eric.
I didn't know what else to do.
Eric told me to meet
him at the surgery room.
He did everything in
his power to save Luca,
but... he couldn't.
Which explains Eric's murder.
If the Tessaros found out Eric was involved
in Luca's death,
they would have retaliated.
What did they know, Jane?
Nothing.
Eric got rid of the body and the clothes
so nothing could lead them to our family.
Jane, did Luca tell you on the phone
who shot him, who wanted him dead?
No. But last week
he said something was up with the Tessaros.
Somebody was making a power grab,
and he was trying to find out who.
I swear...
if the Tessaros killed my Eric,
we're going to war.
Lovers from rival families.
Wow, that sounds like "Romeo and Juliet."
Right down to Eric as the apothecary.
Yo. Jane's alibi checks out.
Doorman places her at
home during Eric's murder.
What about the street cams in the area
- around Luca Tessaro's shooting?
- We looked.
There's no cameras out that way.
[Huffs]Which means we're dead in the water.
Which means I could be dead in the water.
If one of the Tessaros
killed Luca and Eric,
we need to figure out who it was.
Well,
unless you got a bud in that family, too,
they're not gonna talk.
Luckily,
a credit card just did the talking.
Do you remember those hot
numbers that Eric got from Rita?
Well, someone just used one of 'em
- to order a pizza for delivery.
- It's the killer.
He must have got the cards off Eric's body.
- Delivery to where?
- To a tile import business
owned by Luca's cousin, Dante Tessaro.
And with Luca out of the way, Dante becomes
heir apparent to the Tessaro family.
This tile business... what's the address?
This is it.
[Shotgun pumps]
One more step and I'll blow your heads off.
Luca Tessaro?
You're alive?
Luca, put your weapon down!
Why? So you can take me out?
Finish the job?
- Who sent you?
- Nobody sent us, Mr. Tessaro.
We're not here to kill you.
No, a-as a matter of fact,
we thought you were already dead.
Hey, look, if you don't believe us,
you can always ask Jane!
Isn't that right, Jane?
Wait. It's okay, Luca. They can help.
We knew our families would
never approve of what we had.
So we were gonna use the opportunity
to leave the life... for good.
Disappear.
Those credit cards that Eric got...
they were to help you get away?
[Exhales] But when Eric got popped,
I figured it was the same guy who shot me.
You know, maybe he found out I was alive
and went after Eric to get to me.
Who was trying to kill you, Luca?
I didn't see him.
No one ever has, but...
He calls himself Il Penumbra.
Well, what do you know about him?
He's a new player who
showed up a few months ago.
He started hitting up
store owners on our turf
for protection payments.
Well,
then the store owners must know who he is.
He was reaching out to them anonymously...
Through e-mail.
Wire the payment or face consequences.
One of our dry cleaners refused to pay,
his store burned down to the ground.
Mafia 2.0.
Whoever this guy is,
he was moving into our territory,
and the family ordered
me to track him down.
I uncovered the account
where the shopkeepers
were wiring him the money.
Next thing I know,
I get a call from some guy
saying he could help.
He tells you to meet him under the bridge,
but it's a setup.
The shopkeepers we talked
to confirmed Luca's story.
This Il Penumbra's been
terrorizing them for months.
How do you track someone who nobody's seen?
Not through that bank
info that Luca uncovered.
It dead-ended at a private
account in the Cayman Islands.
And given international banking laws,
there's no way to determine
who owns that account.
But maybe there is.
I, uh, made a new friend who might help us
skirt those pesky
international banking laws.
Now, Rita, I know this is a big ask,
but if we can figure out
who owns that account,
we'll find Eric's real killer.
Now is this Penumbra character
the same guy that framed Christopher?
We believe so, yes.
All right, fine, I'll help.
But only 'cause I don't want
to sleep alone on Christmas.
You and Christopher?
[Inhales sharply] [Typing]
Okay, and... [Beeps]
[Hits desk] You gotta be kidding me.
It's not even a clever alias.
You know,
this guy might be using that alias
to withdraw his cash,
but I bet he created the account remotely.
You think you can trace the account
back to the computer it originated from?
I think you should tell Christopher
he's sleeping over new year's eve, too.
Rita determined Il Penumbra's
Cayman account
was opened using a server at
the midtown library branch.
Public terminal. Makes sense.
Especially since most libraries
don't have security cameras.
But the convenience store across
the street from this one does,
so we pulled the video
feed from the same day
that Il Penumbra created the account.
It's time-stamped, so... [Types]
There.
That's the only person who leaves
in the minutes after
the account was opened.
Well, hello, bad Santa.
Thanks for coming to see us, detective.
Of course.
Our investigation uncovered something
that we hope the organized crime unit
might have information about.
Uh, what'd you find?
Luca Tessaro... alive.
Uh,
from the clothes that you told me about,
- I assumed that he was dead.
- He almost was.
We believe the person that shot Luca
also killed Eric Mercer
to cover their tracks,
which means the shooter knew
that the two of them were in contact.
The shooter goes by the name of
"Il Penumbra."
- Does that ring a bell?
- Can't say it does.
Huh. Okay, well, this, uh, Il Penumbra...
he planted evidence to
frame Christopher Carlucci
of Eric's murder after using
a Mustang like Christopher's
to commit the crime.
I'm not sure where you're going with this.
Your neighbor owns a black Mustang.
He said that you slipped him a little cash
to borrow it for that night.
Ryan: We had C.S.U. sweep the car.
They found traces of Eric's blood
on the floor mat left there by your boot.
Are you accusing me of murder?
Along with the attempted
murder of Luca Tessaro
and felony extortion.
We found the account in the Caymans.
You've been working O.C.U. for 16 years
watching bad guys get rich.
So you decided to play both sides,
get a little piece of the action.
This will never fly in court.
Yeah, well,
there's only one way to find out.
[Handcuffs clack]
["Oh Tannenbaum" playing]
Rick.
Hey!
[Chuckles]
Mr. Castle...
I'm very grateful.
And so is Rita.
And my daughter Jane...
she thanks you, too.
What's gonna happen to her and Luca?
I decided it's better to
bless her relationship
and unite with the Tessaros
than to lose my kid.
[Chuckles]'Tis the season of peace, no?
- Yeah.
- Rick...
You did me a favor.
I owe you.
Uh...
When the time comes...
you call me.
Thank you very much. [Clears throat]
That's a call I hope I never have to make.
[Kisses twice]
Merry Christmas.
Dinner was so great.
We can't wait to see
you two lovebirds again.
Maybe next time we can
talk about the wedding.
Maybe. One step at a time, mom.
Well,
it was great to finally meet you both.
Okay.
- All right, pumpkin.
- Bye, mommy.
- Love you.
- Mm.
- You be good.
- I will.
All right. You guys have a good trip.
Thank you for that.
Well, it was actually much easier
than I thought it was gonna be. [Chuckles]
But, you know,
it made me think seriously about us
and where we are.
Javi,
I-I don't think we should do this here.
No, I have to say this.
Lanie...
being fake engaged to you
made me realize how great we are together.
But not the way that your parents are.
[Exhales] Or Castle and Beckett
- or Ryan and Jenny.
- I know.
I-I feel it, too. I...
I mean, I'm crazy about you.
Oh, I'm crazy about you, too,
but just, you know, not...
not in that way.
And you deserve what they have.
We both do.
[Kisses]
[Laughs]
What are you gonna tell your parents?
The truth. But after the holidays.
- No need to spoil their vacation.
- Mmhmm.
[Clicks tongue] Hey!
[Laughs]
So then he cut you with a
little ceremonial dagger. Did it hurt?
Yeah, it hurt,
but you can't let him know that, right?
- So my face was like a stone.
- The black hand.
- Right.
Can I have a word, Mr. Castle?
Yeah, of course. Here.
Tell me the rest later.
Who wants nog?
Is there a problem, captain?
As he was being transferred
to central booking,
Detective McBride was shot and killed
by unknown assailants.
The D.A. learned that you were cooperating
with members of organized
crime in your investigation,
people who might have wanted McBride dead.
Uh... This doesn't look good,
especially for you.
I am so sorry, Mr. Castle,
but the D.A. spoke to the mayor, and...
[Sighs]
You are no longer permitted
to work with the N.Y.P.D.
Castle.
Hey.
Okay, so, I, um...
I've got my draft
of the poem for the family Christmas card.
Want to hear it?
- Yeah.
- Okay.
[Clears throat]
"This has been an epic year.
"Life's been full of joy and tears.
"Solving crimes and catching killers,
"just like Castle's famous thrillers.
"We share a passion every day.
As partners go, we're here to stay."
It's great.
Thank you. [Paper rustles]
Something wrong?
What could be wrong? You're here.
Oh!
[Kiss]
All right, everybody,
let's light this baby up! [Switch clicks]
[Electricity crackles] [Cheering]
Ryan: Merry Christmas!
Looks great this year!
[Bells jingle]
sync and corrected by ninh
www.addic7ed.com
Support us and become VIP member
to remove all ads from www.OpenSubtitles.org